README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/goncalojbsousa/EasyPeasyCV">
    <img src="public/logo.webp" height="96" alt="EasyPeasyCV logo" style="margin-bottom: 10px;" />
    <h3 align="center">EasyPeasyCV</h3>
  </a>
</p>

A modern, responsive CV builder application built with Next.js, React, and TypeScript. Features real-time preview, PDF generation, and multi-language support.

## 🌟 Features

- **6 Professional Templates**: Classic, Modern, Creative, Minimal, Professional, and Timeline
- **Full Customization**: Choose colors, reorder sections, and customize every detail
- **Responsive Design**: Works perfectly on desktop, tablet, and mobile
- **Auto-Save**: Your data is automatically saved in the browser
- **Multi-language**: Available in Portuguese, English and Spanish
- **Privacy-First**: Everything stays in your browser, no external servers
- **PDF Export**: Generate professional PDFs instantly
- **ATS Optimized**: Templates designed to pass Applicant Tracking Systems

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ 
- npm, yarn, pnpm, or bun

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/goncalojbsousa/EasyPeasyCV.git
cd EasyPeasyCV
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
# or
pnpm install
# or
bun install
```

3. Run the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

4. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 15 (App Router)
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **PDF Generation**: @react-pdf/renderer
- **State Management**: React Hooks
- **Icons**: Custom SVG icons

## 👩‍💻 Developer Guide

### Scripts

- **dev**: `npm run dev` — Starts Next.js with Turbopack for fast HMR.
- **build**: `npm run build` — Production build.
- **start**: `npm start` — Runs the production server after a build.
- **lint**: `npm run lint` — ESLint via `eslint-config-next`.

### Project Architecture

- `app/`
  - `page.tsx`: Landing page.
  - `builder/`: Main CV builder page and subroutes.
  - `components/`: Shared UI and feature components.
    - `cv_templates/`: PDF-ready resume templates (Classic/Timeline/etc.).
    - `ui/`: Reusable UI building blocks.
  - `contexts/`: React contexts (e.g., `LanguageContext.tsx`).
  - `types/`: Shared TypeScript types.
  - `utils/`: Utility helpers.
- `public/`: Static assets (images, icons).
 - Root configs: `next.config.ts`, `tailwind.config.ts`, `postcss.config.mjs`, `eslint.config.mjs`, `tsconfig.json`.

### Internationalization (i18n)

- Implemented via `LanguageContext` (`app/contexts/LanguageContext.tsx`).
- Persists user preference in `localStorage` and auto-detects browser language.
- Use `t(key)` for translations.

### PDF Rendering

- Uses `@react-pdf/renderer` to generate print-ready PDFs.
- Core components:
  - `app/components/pdf_preview.tsx`: Preview of final PDF.
  - `app/components/pdf_download_button.tsx`: Triggers PDF generation and download.
  - Templates in `app/components/cv_templates/*` render structured resume content.

### UI, Styling, and State

- Tailwind CSS v4 with `@tailwindcss/postcss` pipeline.
- Drag-and-drop ordering powered by `@dnd-kit` (e.g., in `academic_education.tsx`).
- Client-side persistence (auto-save) in the browser; no backend required.

### Development Workflow

1. Install deps and run `npm run dev`.
2. Implement changes in `app/*` with App Router conventions.
3. Keep translations in `LanguageContext` in sync when adding UI labels.
4. For PDF changes, update the corresponding template in `cv_templates/*`.
5. Run `npm run lint` before committing.

### Build & Deploy

- Local production run: `npm run build && npm start`.
- Works on platforms supporting Next.js 15 (e.g., Vercel). Ensure Node 18+.

### Troubleshooting

- Ensure Node 18+ to avoid Next.js 15 compatibility issues.
- If Tailwind classes are missing, confirm Tailwind v4 config (`postcss.config.mjs`, `tailwind.config.ts`).
- Clear `.next/` cache if you hit stale build artifacts.

## 🌍 Internationalization

The application supports multiple languages:
- Portuguese (pt)
- English (en)
- Spanish (es)

Language switching is available in the header.

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

### How to Contribute

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines

- Follow TypeScript best practices
- Use meaningful commit messages
- Add comments for complex logic
- Test your changes thoroughly
- Follow the existing code style

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 📞 Support

If you find this project helpful, consider supporting it:

- ⭐ Star the repository
- 🐛 Report bugs
- 💡 Suggest new features
- ☕ [Buy me a coffee](https://ko-fi.com/easypeasycv)

## 🔗 Links

- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/goncalojbsousa/EasyPeasyCV)
- [Issues](https://github.com/goncalojbsousa/EasyPeasyCV/issues)
- [Website](https://www.easypeasycv.com/)

## 🧭 Inspiration

- https://github.com/codedgabriel/ats-curriculo
- https://ats-curriculo.vercel.app/

Commit message:

feat(landing): improve template preview with images and refactor layout on home page
- Replace SVG icons with image previews for better visual representation
- Simplify template data structure to match selector component
- Remove unused imports from desktop-actions-card
- Update README to document XML import/export feature

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/goncalojbsousa/EasyPeasyCV">
    <img src="public/logo.webp" height="96" alt="EasyPeasyCV logo" style="margin-bottom: 10px;" />
    <h3 align="center">EasyPeasyCV</h3>
  </a>
</p>

A modern, responsive CV builder application built with Next.js, React, and TypeScript. Features real-time preview, PDF generation, and multi-language support.

## 🌟 Features

- **6 Professional Templates**: Classic, Modern, Creative, Minimal, Professional, and Timeline
- **Full Customization**: Choose colors, reorder sections, and customize every detail
- **Responsive Design**: Works perfectly on desktop, tablet, and mobile
- **Auto-Save**: Your data is automatically saved in the browser
- **Multi-language**: Available in Portuguese, English and Spanish
- **Privacy-First**: Everything stays in your browser, no external servers
- **PDF Export**: Generate professional PDFs instantly
- **Data Import/Export (XML)**: Export your CV data to XML and re-import later
- **ATS Optimized**: Templates designed to pass Applicant Tracking Systems

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ 
- npm, yarn, pnpm, or bun

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/goncalojbsousa/EasyPeasyCV.git
cd EasyPeasyCV
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
# or
pnpm install
# or
bun install
```

3. Run the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

4. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 15 (App Router)
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **PDF Generation**: @react-pdf/renderer
- **State Management**: React Hooks
- **Icons**: Custom SVG icons

## 👩‍💻 Developer Guide

### Scripts

- **dev**: `npm run dev` — Starts Next.js with Turbopack for fast HMR.
- **build**: `npm run build` — Production build.
- **start**: `npm start` — Runs the production server after a build.
- **lint**: `npm run lint` — ESLint via `eslint-config-next`.

### Project Architecture

- `app/`
  - `page.tsx`: Landing page.
  - `builder/`: Main CV builder page and subroutes.
  - `components/`: Shared UI and feature components.
    - `cv_templates/`: PDF-ready resume templates (Classic/Timeline/etc.).
    - `ui/`: Reusable UI building blocks.
  - `contexts/`: React contexts (e.g., `LanguageContext.tsx`).
  - `types/`: Shared TypeScript types.
  - `utils/`: Utility helpers.
- `public/`: Static assets (images, icons).
 - Root configs: `next.config.ts`, `tailwind.config.ts`, `postcss.config.mjs`, `eslint.config.mjs`, `tsconfig.json`.

### Internationalization (i18n)

- Implemented via `LanguageContext` (`app/contexts/LanguageContext.tsx`).
- Persists user preference in `localStorage` and auto-detects browser language.
- Use `t(key)` for translations.

### PDF Rendering

- Uses `@react-pdf/renderer` to generate print-ready PDFs.
- Core components:
  - `app/components/pdf_preview.tsx`: Preview of final PDF.
  - `app/components/pdf_download_button.tsx`: Triggers PDF generation and download.
  - Templates in `app/components/cv_templates/*` render structured resume content.

### Data Import/Export (XML)

- Available on the Builder page.
- Desktop: right sidebar card `Data > XML` menu in `DesktopActionsCard` (`app/components/ui/desktop-actions-card.tsx`).
- Actions:
  - Export: saves a `cv-data.xml` file with your current CV data.
  - Import: choose a previously saved XML file to restore all sections (personal info, experiences, education, skills, links, etc.).
- Implementation details:
  - Serialization/parsing in `app/utils/xml.ts` via `cvDataToXml()` and `xmlToCvData()`.
  - Handlers wired in the Builder page (`app/builder/page.tsx`): `handleExportXml()` and `handleImportXml()`.
  - No server is used; all processing happens locally in the browser.

### UI, Styling, and State

- Tailwind CSS v4 with `@tailwindcss/postcss` pipeline.
- Drag-and-drop ordering powered by `@dnd-kit` (e.g., in `academic_education.tsx`).
- Client-side persistence (auto-save) in the browser; no backend required.

### Development Workflow

1. Install deps and run `npm run dev`.
2. Implement changes in `app/*` with App Router conventions.
3. Keep translations in `LanguageContext` in sync when adding UI labels.
4. For PDF changes, update the corresponding template in `cv_templates/*`.
5. Run `npm run lint` before committing.

### Build & Deploy

- Local production run: `npm run build && npm start`.
- Works on platforms supporting Next.js 15 (e.g., Vercel). Ensure Node 18+.

### Troubleshooting

- Ensure Node 18+ to avoid Next.js 15 compatibility issues.
- If Tailwind classes are missing, confirm Tailwind v4 config (`postcss.config.mjs`, `tailwind.config.ts`).
- Clear `.next/` cache if you hit stale build artifacts.

## 🌍 Internationalization

The application supports multiple languages:
- Portuguese (pt)
- English (en)
- Spanish (es)

Language switching is available in the header.

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

### How to Contribute

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines

- Follow TypeScript best practices
- Use meaningful commit messages
- Add comments for complex logic
- Test your changes thoroughly
- Follow the existing code style

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 📞 Support

If you find this project helpful, consider supporting it:

- ⭐ Star the repository
- 🐛 Report bugs
- 💡 Suggest new features
- ☕ [Buy me a coffee](https://ko-fi.com/easypeasycv)

## 🔗 Links

- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/goncalojbsousa/EasyPeasyCV)
- [Issues](https://github.com/goncalojbsousa/EasyPeasyCV/issues)
- [Website](https://www.easypeasycv.com/)

## 🧭 Inspiration

- https://github.com/codedgabriel/ats-curriculo
- https://ats-curriculo.vercel.app/
